FREEDOM OF INFORMATION REQUEST
May 3, 2018

Ronna Thury
via the FOI website
Dear Ronna Thury,
regarding your Freedom of Information request titled “juggs” we collected the following
information:
Juggs is a softcore pornography adult magazine published in the United States which
specializes in photographs of women with large breasts. It has been called "the magazine of choice for breast men". Models featured included Candy Samples, Roberta Pedon
and Tina Small. It is published by Mavety Media Group, originally known for publishing
gay pornography magazines in the United States, and distributed by Larry Flynt Publications. The magazine readership is mostly blue-collar men in the American South and
Midwest. Dian Hanson, the magazine’s editor for 15 years, described it as "the epitome of
bad taste... a humorous magazine, a sexual sideshow." The magazine title, a slang term
for breasts, has become the perennial punch line of any joke that requires a pornographic
magazine. It is used by leading American media including Time Magazine, CBS News,
and The New York Times as the immediately recognizable title of a pornographic magazine, without further explanation needed. After Juggs published a review of artist John
Currin’s exhibition in 1998, the magazine’s approval was still being used to define the
artist’s work 11 years later.
From 1986 to 2001, Juggs was helmed by Dian Hanson who had edited multiple pornographic magazines since 1977. She has said that when she first arrived, it was being
produced by a staff of solely gay men, who would choose to display photos of the ugliest
possible women, to mock their heterosexual readership. Hanson began putting in pictorials of women modeled after the Venus of Willendorf, a prehistoric fertility symbol with
enormous breasts and a massive belly, which she saw as a piece of early pornography for
cavemen. Hanson stated the magazine’s monthly circulation nearly doubled, from 85,000
at the time she joined as editor, to 150,000 by 1996. Hanson said that Juggs was seen
as less threatening to women than many other pornographic magazines, who saw its less
than perfect models as closer to themselves, and were more willing to submit their photographs there than to any other magazine she worked at in 25 years. Hanson left Juggs
in August 2001, a year after its publisher, George Mavety, died, leaving the company in

the hands of people she didn’t want to work for.
Sincerely,

John Smith
FOI Manager

2

